
** General UI Guidelines for KiCad Development


Capitalization:

    For any visible text used within KiCad, follow recommendations here:
    http://developer.gnome.org/hig-book/stable/design-text-labels.html.en
    in the "Capitalization" section.  This applies to all Menus, Titles,
    Labels, Tooltips, Buttons, etc.

    The capitalization for the application names is KiCad, Eeschema, CvPcb,
    GerbView, and Pcbnew.  All strings that have application names that are
    visible to the user should be capitalized this way.  It's also a good
    idea use this capitalization in source code comments as well to prevent
    confusion of new contributors.

    Two styles of capitalization are used in GNOME user interface elements:

    Header capitalization
    Capitalize all words in the element, with the following exceptions:
        Articles: a, an, the.
        Conjunctions: and, but, for, not, so, yet ...
        Prepositions of three or fewer letters: at, for, by, in, to ...

    Sentence capitalization
        Capitalize the first letter of the first word, and any other words
        normally capitalized in sentences,such as application names.

    The following table indicates the capitalization style to use for each
    type of user interface element.

    Table 8-3 Capitalization Style Guidelines for User Interface Elements

    Element 	                             Style

    Check box labels 	                     Sentence
    Command button labels 	                 Header
    Column heading labels 	                 Header
    Desktop background object labels 	     Header
    Dialog messages 	                     Sentence
    Drop-down combination box labels 	     Sentence
    Drop-down list box labels 	             Sentence
    Field labels 	                         Sentence
    Filenames 	                             Sentence
    Graphic equivalent text:
    for example, Alt text on web pages 	     Sentence
    Group box or frame labels 	             Header
    Items in drop-down combination boxes,
    drop-down list boxes, and list boxes 	 Sentence
    List box labels 	                     Sentence
    Menu items 	                             Header
    Menu items in applications 	             Header
    Menu titles in applications 	         Header
    Radio button labels 	                 Sentence
    Slider labels 	                         Sentence
    Spin box labels 	                     Sentence
    Tabbed section titles 	                 Header
    Text box labels 	                     Sentence
    Titlebar labels 	                     Header
    Toolbar button labels 	                 Header
    Tooltips 	                             Sentence
    Webpage titles and navigational elements Header


Dialogs:

    Follow the recommendations here:

    http://developer.gnome.org/hig-book/stable/design-window.html.en
    paying particular attention to "initial focus", "sensible default values",
    "default buttons", ESC key termination.  Please note that the escape key
    termination only works properly if there is a dialog button defined with
    an ID of wxID_CANCEL or SetEscapeID( MY_ESCAPE_BUTTON_ID ) is called during
    dialog initialization.  The former is the preferred method for handling
    escape key dialog termination.  There is a checkbox in wxformbuilder for
    the "default" control, and this is the one fired when the "enter" key
    is pressed.

    Use wxWidgets "sizers" in all dialogs, no matter how simple they are:
    http://zetcode.com/tutorials/wxwidgetstutorial/layoutmanagement
    and keep dialogs resizeable.

    Configure the sizers so that as the dialog window is expanded, the most
    sensible use of the increased dialog window occurs automatically by the
    sizers. For example, in the DRC dialog of Pcbnew, sizers should be used to
    expand the text control to use the full available free window area, so that
    the user's view of the items in the text control is maximized as he/she
    expands the dialog window, making it easier to read more DRC error messages.
    In other dialogs without one component more important than the others, the
    sizers might be configured to position the controls to sensible positions
    near the perimeter of the increasingly larger dialog box, not necessarily
    leaving them all bundled tightly together.  The dialog box should look
    nice at any size large enough to show all the components.

    When using wxFormBuilder, please add the following settings to the
    "Dialog" node:
        subclass.name   <- DIALOG_SHIM
        subclass.header <- dialog_shim.h

    This will provide for an override of the Show( bool ) wxWindow() function
    and provide retentitive size and position for the session.

    Use tooltips to explain the functionality of each non-obvious control.
    This is important because the help files and the wiki often lag behind
    the source code.

    Avoid defining initial dialog sizes if possible.  Let the sizers do their
    job.  After the dialog is fit to the sizers, set the minimum size to the
    current size to prevent the dialog controls from being obscured when
    resizing the dialog.  If the labels or text of the dialog controls are,
    set or changed at run time.  Rerun wxWindow::Fit() to allow the dialog to
    re-size and adjust for the new control widths.  This can all be done after
    the dialog is created but before it is shown or use class methods to
    re-size the dialog as required.  Reset the minimum size to the updated
    dialog size.

    Dialog windows shall not exceed 1024 x 768 when displayed in a 13 point font.
    Note that the font used by end users is not something that you control from
    within the dialog, but for testing purposes please do not exceed this dialog
    size should the user have selected a font size of 13 points.


Quoting:
    Filenames, paths or other text should be with single quotes ''.  e.g.:
    'filename.kicad_pcb'
    'longpath/subdir'
    'FOOTPRINTNAME'
    'anything else'

    Often text strings like this end up in panels which use HTML rendering, and this
    can happen in the future.  Previously used angle brackets only cause grief there.

